Humans are born
with a strong inclination to imitate.
In fact, very young infants
have been observed
imitating facial expressions.
That’s amazing!
It makes me think of an experience
I had some 40 years ago
when Susan and I were in the circuit work.
A sister told me
that her little five-year-old son
was looking in a mirror
and making various expressions
with his face and eyes.
His mother asked,
“What are you doing?”
He said,
“I can’t do like Brother Lett;
I’ll never be a circuit overseer!”
Well, I’m sure he soon learned
that voluminous facial expressions
are not a requirement for circuit work.
In fact, they could be a disadvantage.
By the way, thank you
for putting up with me all these years.
But how does a small child learn to walk,
feed himself, and talk?
He learns by imitating
his parents and others.
However, there’s one type of imitating
that does not come
automatically or even easily.
It’s identified at Ephesians 5:1.
It says: “Therefore, become
imitators of God, as beloved children.”
Notice the word “become.”
We are not born as “imitators of God.”
Because of inherited imperfection,
we aren’t even born with an inclination
to become an imitator of God.
Genesis 8:21 says:
“For the inclination of the heart of man
is bad from his youth up.”
Therefore, it takes earnest effort
to become an imitator of God.
But it’s well worth the effort,
and Jehovah will help us.
What blessings will we personally reap
if we become an imitator of God?
The greatest blessing
—Jehovah will see that we
are trying to be like him,
and he will love us and draw close to us.
Also, the more we learn about Jehovah
and strive to be like him,
the more we’ll love him
and the closer we’ll draw to him.
Cultivating godly qualities
will result
in improved relations with others.
Imitating godly qualities
will make us a better person overall.
The more we’re like Jehovah,
the happier we’ll be.
That’s how he created us.
Those are just a few
of the blessings we’ll reap
if we become an imitator of God.
In our publications,
more than 40 different qualities of Jehovah
have been identified and discussed.
But in this discussion,
let’s examine just one.
We’ll discuss the theme
“Imitate Jehovah’s Generosity.”
Generosity is an aspect of Jehovah’s love.
Unquestionably, Jehovah God
is the most generous Giver in the universe.
Let’s talk about this.
Eons and eons ago,
Jehovah God was all alone.
And even though it’s impossible
for us to comprehend,
he wasn’t lonely or lacking anything.
But because of love,
he generously chose to share
the gift of life with others.
He decided to become a Father, a Creator.
Logically, he began by creating a Son
with whom He could directly enjoy fellowship.
As we know,
this Son became known as the Word,
as Jehovah’s Spokesman.
But then, at some point in time, again,
not because of loneliness
or lacking anything,
but because of love,
He chose to further expand His family
by creating millions of angelic sons
who could also directly associate with Him.
Then, amazingly,
further down the stream of time,
because of love,
He again chose to expand His family.
These children were a lower form of life
but ones who were made in His image
and whom He loved deeply.
Of course, we’re talking about Adam and Eve
—the original parents of all of us.
If Jehovah had not created them,
none of us would ever have been born.
Yes, life itself
is a wonderful, miraculous,
and generous gift.
Without this gift,
we wouldn’t be able to enjoy any
of Jehovah’s other marvelous blessings.
Let’s now talk about Jehovah’s generosity
when it comes to physical gifts.
“Every good gift and every perfect present
is from above.”
Think for a moment
about the planet we live on.
Jehovah created the earth as a beautiful
and unique home for us.
It has all the right conditions
to sustain life,
including the oxygen and water cycles
that continually recycle essential resources.
If the earth were closer to the sun,
all the water would boil off
and the planet would be a barren rock.
Conversely, if it were farther from the sun,
the water would freeze
and the planet would be like
an uninhabitable iceberg.
Jehovah placed the earth
at the perfect location,
often called the Goldilocks zone.
Think, too, about the marvelous gift
of our human bodies.
Even in our imperfect state,
as mentioned at Psalm 139:14,
we are “wonderfully made.”
Isn’t it brilliant how our skin
is designed to heal when we cut,
scrape, or bruise it?
When we scratch, scrape, or dent our car,
does it heal itself?
Can you imagine
what we would look like if every time
we damaged our skin,
it just stayed that way?
We’d begin to look pretty rough
in just a short period of time.
And isn’t it amazing
how the skin allows water to exit the body
in the form of perspiration?
But at the same time,
it doesn’t allow water to enter into the body
when we take a bath;
otherwise, we’d become waterlogged.
Ponder for a moment about how food
is not only nutritious,
but it’s also delicious.
This makes fueling our bodies very enjoyable.
Jehovah could have made eating
like putting gasoline in a car
—a necessary function
but void of enjoyment.
Think of all the tasty varieties of food.
As just one example,
how many varieties of grapes are there?
According to the Food
and Agriculture Organization,
there are about 10,000
different grape varieties worldwide.
Jehovah could have given us
just two varieties
—red and green.
But why do we have some 10,000 varieties?
Because of Jehovah’s voluminous generosity.
But now we ask,
How can we imitate Jehovah’s generosity
in giving physical gifts?
It’s obvious that Jehovah
has put a lot of thought into his gift-giving
so that his gifts
are practical and beneficial.
Likewise, we should prayerfully meditate
so that our gifts are useful.
Not all gifts are practical.
One brother gave this example:
A puppy might make a fine gift
to a young one living in a rural setting,
but it’s a terrible gift to a Bethelite.
If our brother lacks food,
clothing, or shelter,
we don’t just say:
“Go in peace; keep warm and well fed.”
No, we apply Proverbs 3:27,
which says:
“Do not withhold good from those
to whom you should give it
if it is within your power to help.”
In addition
to helping brothers in need directly,
we can indirectly help them
by making donations to the worldwide work.
The Governing Body
prayerfully strives to use wisely
these precious, dedicated funds
to help our dear brothers
who’ve been afflicted
by natural or man-made disasters
and who urgently need suitable Kingdom Halls
and assistance in many other ways.
Speaking of the need for Kingdom Halls,
as just one example,
please look at these pictures
from the Philippines.
Here are six before and after photographs.
And what do you think
was the individual average cost
for these six new simplified
but dignified Kingdom Halls?
Twenty one thousand U.S. dollars.
Please think about this:
Jehovah’s physical gifts such as the rain,
sunshine, and oxygen are recurring.
What’s one way to imitate
this aspect of Jehovah’s giving?
Well, 1 Corinthians 16:2 says:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means.”
In harmony with this Scriptural principle,
many have chosen
to “set something aside” each month
by scheduling recurring online donations.
But now let’s briefly contemplate
Jehovah’s spiritual gifts,
which are even more impressive.
Think about the Bible.
Where would we be without it?
Lost, hopeless, floundering.
We’d have to learn by experience
—“the school of hard knocks.”
We’d need at least two lives to live
—one to practice
and the second to perform.
Next, think about the holy spirit.
John 14:26 describes it as a helper,
teacher, and a remembrancer.
It is the most powerful force
in the universe,
and Jehovah gives it to us generously.
Consider for a moment the resurrection hope.
It strengthens us in times of great distress
—when death takes a loved one
or when we face death ourselves.
I’m reminded
of the six-year-old girl who said:
‘Thank you, Jehovah,
for the resurrection hope.
It is a very good idea!’
For our final example,
what was Jehovah’s
greatest spiritual gift of generosity?
The gift of his Son
to purchase us from sin and death.
And it wasn’t just any angel
whom Jehovah sent;
it was his Firstborn,
his only-begotten Son.
What if you were tied to a chair
and forced to watch the torture and execution
of your most beloved child?
That would be horrible!
Of course, Jehovah was not tied,
but because of his great love for us,
he restrained himself
and allowed the torture and execution
of his most precious Son.
That is the ultimate example of generosity.
But now we ask,
How can we imitate Jehovah’s generosity
in giving spiritual gifts?
One way is by being generous
in giving sincere commendation.
If you see something good,
say something good.
Proverbs 15:23 says:
“A word spoken at the right time
—how good it is!”
Words have great power.
To illustrate, think of how two words
from a convention chairman
can lift thousands of pounds.
What are they?
“Please stand!”
In this vein, Proverbs 18:21 says:
“Death and life
are in the power of the tongue.”
Just a few words at the right time
can make a tremendous difference
in a person’s life.
They can cause a depressed one to “stand”
with a positive hope for the future.
Another way
is to freely give out forgiveness.
Colossians 3:13 reminds us
that ‘Jehovah freely forgives us’
and that we “must also do the same.”
The word “freely” in English
means “generously”
and can also mean “without charge.”
Is there someone you can extend
true forgiveness to in imitation
of our generous God?
Additionally, how about generously
giving out knowledge?
Do we pray for a Bible study
and then work in harmony with those prayers
by searching diligently for a deserving one?
Do we liberally train others
and share the skills we have in the ministry
and in the maintenance
and construction of theocratic facilities?
People in general often hoard
the knowledge they have
in order to protect their job.
But like Jehovah,
we gladly share the knowledge
we have with others.
During our discussion,
we barely scratched the surface
regarding Jehovah’s generosity
and how we can imitate him.
We will learn forever about our great God
and how we can better reflect his qualities.
But in the meantime,
the more we learn about him
and the more closely we can imitate him,
the richer, happier,
and more satisfying our lives will be.
And why?
Because that’s how he created us.